---
layout:  post
name:    posts
title:   "Practical vim: sessions and git"
created: 2019-03-20

---

### A brief aside

Do you know of [tpope](https://github.com/tpope)? Do you even vim?! If you
answered, "no," and then anything besides "vim is for dinosaurs," do
yourself a solid and head over to [Tim Pope's blog](https://tbaggery.com/).
Albeit inactive for nearly a decade, it's my model for a perfect blog because

- it's straight to the point
- the content (including the domain) is irreverent and hilarious
- posts are immensely helpful for a particular niche

I'm going to try and emulate this to the best of my ability.

"You're already failing, Erik," the cynical reader might say, "this is anything
but straight to the point!

Be cool! I'm getting there. The most recent post on ctags inspired me to do
something similar with vim sessions.


### What are vim sessions?

Don't be a script kiddie: read the docs! Open vim and type
```
:h session
```
The long and short of it is this: sessions are vim's way of saving workspace
state. This means buffers, windows, tabs, registers, recent locations, etc.

Sessions are pretty cool, but they are too tedious to work with! This is why I
downloaded Mr. Vim Plugin's [Obsession](https://termux.com/). Honestly though,
even interacting with Obsession was too much work.

### Using Obsession to replicate modern IDE functionality

I want to pick and choose functionality of modern IDEs so I can get all the
productivity benefits and none of the bloat. In this example, I want to

- quit vim
- restart my computer (or whatever)
- then pick up right where I left off with a single command

I handled this with a bit of Bash. 

```
vs(){
    # open vim and source session Session.vim or parameter1.vim

    mkdir -p ${vim_sessions}

    # use Session.vim if no param given
    if [ "$#" -ne 1 ]; then
        SESSION_NAME=session
    else
        SESSION_NAME=$1
    fi

    SESSION_PATH=${vim_sessions}/$SESSION_NAME

    if [[ ! -f $SESSION_PATH ]]; then
        # make session file if it does not exist
        $EDITOR -c "Obsession $SESSION_PATH"
    else
        # source session file if it exists
        $EDITOR -S $SESSION_PATH
    fi
}
```

This enables me to just type `vim` followed by a character or two, then I can
just tab through results. Great! But not good enough. Most of the time I'm
writing code in a git repository and I have a certain files open and arranged
for a task as hand. Wouldn't it be great if I could source a session for just
this branch? It would, and it is! Take a look:

```
vb(){
    # open vim and source session for curent git branch
    # used for creating / writing source code
    # if anything is given for first param
    #   session will be deleted and recreated (start fresh)

    repo=$(basename `git rev-parse --show-toplevel`)
    branch=$(git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD)

    if [[ -z $branch || -z $repo  ]]; then
        return 0
    fi
    mkdir -p ${vim_sessions}/$repo
    path_segment=$repo/$branch.vim

    if [[ $1 ]]; then
        rm ${vim_sessions}/$path_segment
    fi

    vs $path_segment
}

```

This command takes an argument, usually I give it `-` but it can be literally
anything. If the argument is present, the session for that branch is deleted and
created anew.

If you find these useful, head over to my
[dotfiles repository](https://github.com/ethorne/dotfiles) and check out the
`bash_aliases file`. There might be some other stuff in there you dig.

Happy coding!

-ET

