---
layout:  post
name:    posts
title:   "ABC - Always Be Coding"
created: 2019-04-03

---

### Practice makes perfect
My highschool teacher for the Java course I took (APCS) introduced us to a site
called javabat that we could use to practice and stay sharp. Since then it's
been renamed to [codingbat](https://codingbat.com/java) as it offers both java
and python problems to work on.

I loved this site! I worked my way through most of the problems on there over
the remainder of my high school years. This was a great way to keep the stoke
alive for the 2.5 years inbetween the end of this course and the beginning of
collegiate CS courses.  (I realized I wanted to study CS in college after taking
this class my sophomore year, so I loaded up on all the liberal arts electives
that I knew I wouldn't be able to take later on).

Now that I'm a few years out of college, and about a year out of a full-time
software developer job, I've started missing challenging problems. I'm working
on a few side projects right now, but I found that I was still craving the
challenge of figuring out or applying complex algorithms.

But there's gotta be something better than codingbat... also, I solved these
problems years ago!

### Leetcode

A friend told me about Leetcode, which he uses this to practice for interviews.
This appears to be the most common use case. I'm not a fan of the classic coding
interview: I don't think it does a great job of assessing aptitude, like it
obviously intends to. While [I'm not alone in thinking
this](https://twitter.com/mxcl/status/608682016205344768), it's not quite what I
want to talk about here.

Coding is fun! Self improvement is fun! Leetcode's interface is not. Straight
up, if I have to work with their excuse of a IDE with vi keybindings for one
more minute, I'm gonna hurl my machine straight out the window.

Okay, I won't damage any property, because that's wasteful and doubleplusungood,
but I'm not kidding when I say that I stopped using leetcode cuz I absolutely
loathed working with the provided "IDE" (note the airquotes). I tried copying
and pasting from vim into leetcode, but that was not the best solution.

Then I happened on [leetcode-cli](https://github.com/skygragon/leetcode-cli), a
wonderful command line tool that enabled me to write, test, and submit leetcode
solutions from the comfort of my own command line.

### Git Stats

This works nicely, but now I have a folder in my `~/Documents` directory that's
full of various solutions. This started to grow more and more, and I sometimes
wished that I could use my trusty `vb` alias (see [this
post](https://erikthorne.com/2019/03/20/vb.html)) to more quickly get up and
running for my morning coding warm up. I thought I might just modify that alias
to work with directories that are not git repositories... Then I thought, "If a
developer write's code, but doesn't commit it, does it even happen?"

No. The answer is No.

I'm working as a freelancer right now, which means that there are a lot of times
where I am in between projects. During those times I want to continue the
practice of coding daily. This is easier said than done when the only person
holding you accountable is yourself! So I've been using the [contribution
graph](https://github.com/ethorne) on the GitHub user home page to keep myself
honest.

All signs point to making this a git repository! So that's just what I did. Now
I practice algorithms
