---
layout:  post
name:    posts
title:   "Pass and Rofi"
created: 2019-07-10
---

# Context

[Last time](/2019/05/12/pass.html) I described how I use
[Pass](https://www.passwordstore.org/), a unix password manager, to add a bit of
convenience and security to my life. Like all things in life, I opted for the
DIY version of a tool that is also commercially available. Why? Because life is
[suffering](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dukkha)! (If you want to actually know
why then go read the post, it won't take long.)

## What are we doing here...?

Well I can't speak for you, but I am trying to have my cake and eat it too. I
want a system that fulfills the following:

- is highly (perhaps completely) configurable 
- has no unwanted bells and whistles
- is rippin' fast!
- assumes I know what I'm doing and lets me do it myself

This is why I opt for solutions that often involve a bit more setup. Things that
work out-of-the-box are nice at first, but often leave me wanting more,
navigating through feature bloat, or insecure to a degree that I find
unsettling.

## Enter Rofi

[Rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) is a wildly useful tool. I use it for
launching applications, opening SSH sessions, and a whole lot more. You can
style it and use it to streamline a lot of workflows. Let's take a look at how
it could help us here.

With Pass, my workflow might look something like this:

- go to website `somesite.com`
- enter username in appropriate field
- open a terminal window
- ponder what folder I saved that password in
- type `pass find somesite`
- ah... that's where it is...
- execute the full `pass` command to copy the password to my clipboard
- enter my GPG password in the system dialog
- close the terminal window
- go back to the web browser and paste the password

Rofi is really good at selecting one thing from a list of many. Seems perfect
for this! I'm only trying to streamline the use case for copying an existing
password to the clipboard, so something like [this project that I found](
https://github.com/carnager/rofi-pass) is a bit overkill for my needs (but I dig
that someone did that). The workflow should look as such:

- go to website `somesite.com`
- enter username in appropriate field
- run a script that interacts with Rofi (using a system keybinding)
- type `somesite` or just enough to filter and select the right option
- press enter
- enter my GPG password in the system dialog
- go back to the web browser and paste the password

That's a lot better! It would be even better if the characters typed into Rofi
would fuzzy search the list of passwords. Let's see how we can get Rofi to help
us here.

## Writring the script
