
---
layout:  post
name:    posts
title:   "Password Security"
created: 2019-05-12

---

### Easy and Secure

Most things that increase security make your life a little harder. Locks, for
example, are just so tedious to deal with. The only exception to this rule that
I've encounteres is a password manager. What's that? Oh, you don't know? Allow
me to give a sales pitch.

<i>/clearsThroat</i>
<i>/adjustsTie</i>
<i>/longPause</i>

Passwords are such a bore, amirite? Too long, not long enough, needs more
cowbell. The umpteenth iteration of my dogs name is hard to remember. "Is it
sparky22 or sparky21 on facebook...?" If you're anything like me, you're about
2 incorrect attempts away from launching a brick through your own window because
you can't remember that password you use once a year for TurboTax.

Calm down, dear friend! The end of your struggles is nigh. Let me show you the
ways of a password manager. With this wonderful tool, of
[which](https://www.lastpass.com/) [there](https://keepersecurity.com/)
[are](https://1password.com/) [many](https://www.stickypassword.com/), you will
only have to remember one password.

I know what you're going to say: "but Erik, having just one password is a single
point of failure. That contradicts a fundamental tenet of any secure system!"

You're a keen bean, dear friend, but you're missing the point. One strong point
of failure is much better than the many weak points of failure that your excuses
for passwords comprise. It could be some clever phone scammer gleaning
information from you, or some script kiddie is running executables they found on
4chan. The point is that weak passwords will get you PWNed, and 100 of them is
worse than just one of them.

"Okay," you might respond, "but I'm no dummy. No system is unbreakable, and
vault of a bajillion passwords is the holy grail for a malicious user. Why would
I put my precious password in that vault?"

Ah, I see your distrust runs as deep as my own. You are right to scorn all
commercial attempts at increasing security. Let's take a look at our options
here.

### Locals Only

I use [Pass](https://www.passwordstore.org/) because it keeps my passwords on my
local machine, and off of some [service that could
hacked](https://security.harvard.edu/faq/what-if-lastpass-gets-hacked). What's
more secure about my local machine than, say, LastPass' server? Probably
nothing, but that's beside the point. We are not trying to build the most
secure, unbreakable system here; we are trying to not be the lowest hanging /
juciest fruit.

There are probably other options for local password 

### GPG? PGP? WTF? IDFC!

Calm down.
