---
layout:  post
created: 2019-01-21
title:   "Welcome!"
---

## What is this place?

Hello friend! I'm glad you stumbled across my tiny site.

My name is Erik and I have way more things that I want to accomplish than I have
time to accomplish them. Whatever though, thats a lame excuse for inaction.

For now this site exists primarily as an online
[resume]({{site.url}}/pages/resume.html}}), but there's so much more to come!

I'm interested in getting more involved in network security and what that even
means. So as I explore that world I'll make sure to post things that I have done
that are interesting.

The things you can most expect on this site in the near future are posts about
my [dotfiles repository](https://github.com/ethorne/dotfiles). I have a lot of
stuff on there that I think is pretty clever (/brushesoffshoulder), and I'd love
to share it with whatever nerd wants to listen. Now I just have to find the
time to write all that...


## What keeps me busy
### Computers
I love cooking up my own solutions with whatever tools I have at my disposal.
Sometimes it's a "I wonder how hard this would be" kind of thought, and other
times it's a "I could do that so much better" thought. I run Ubuntu 18.04 as my
personal OS, I stream my music off a plex library which I have hosted off a
frankenserver at my apartment, and I've got a million-and-a-half
questionably-finished projects with Raspberry Pi and Arduino platforms. Wanna
work on something together? Toss me a line, I'd at least like to chat about it.

### Biking
Since I was a kid I've always loved biking. I never did it on any kind of team,
or really in any organized manner, but I started building and working on bikes
with my brothers around the time I was in junior-high.

In the Summer of 2018, I found myself with ample time, as I had recently decided
to leave CODE, and more than enough stoke for bike touring. I never studied
abroad in College and have always wanted to see more of the US. This seemed like
the perfect opportunity, and those don't always come around twice! I headed out
of New York City at the beginning of June. Fifteen days later I was in Chicago!

![knoxville]({{site.url}}/_img/et_bike_chicago.jpg){: .center-image }

After seeing the city, spending time with friends and family, and eating my
weight in deep dish pizza, I took a Greyhound bus to Knoxville, TN where this
lovely picture was shot:

![knoxville]({{site.url}}/_img/et_bike_knoxville.jpg){: .center-image }

Then I headed down a less-than-straightforward path to St. Augustine, FL where I
met up with some family to relax after what ended up being ~2,000 miles of
biking.

I could fill a whole site about the adventures I had along the way, and I could
write even more about what I learned, but no one wants to hear about all that.
It was mostly just pedalling and eating as much food as I fit in my stomach.
There was the occassional life changing moment, but no one wants to hear about
all that, right?

### Climbing

I've been climbing rocks for almost as long as I've been biking, but I have way
less impressive things to share. Here's a shot of me being a grease-ball in the
City of Rocks, ID.

![knoxville]({{site.url}}/_img/et_city_of_rocks.jpg){: .center-image }

### Sewing

There will be much more to come on this. Suffice to say I do not like buying new
things if I think I can make them. The number of things that fall into that
category is increasing each year! Someday I would love to make all my own
clothes (at least the casual-wear ones) and all my own bike bags.
