---
layout:    employment
title:     "DatStat"
jobTitle:  "Junior Software Developer"
startDate: "December 2013"
endDate:   "February 2016"
location:  "Seattle, WA"
empType:   "Full Time / Part Time (working student)"
---
# A Budding Software Developer
This was my entry into the world of professional software development. I got a
job at DatStat by convincing the good people there that I'm a quick learner!
They made me put my money where my mouth was with a project-based interview.
That project was my first exposure to SQL databases, MVC architecture, and C#
(which I don't care for too much these days, more on that later). I rose to the
challenge and had a great time doing so!

Initially I had pretty bad [imposter
syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) working at DatStat,
being the youngest person in the office and only having taken two computer
science classes (one of which was in highschool almost 4 years prior). These
fears were regularly quelled my boss each time we did performance reviews.
Inbetween reviews the fear kept me vigilant. I kept a list of "stuff you don't
know that you should know," containing tools, phrases, concepts, or anything
that I would hear around the office and not know. (These days I keep this list
for all projects, calling it SYDKBYSK). Each night I would study the items on
the list with the little time I had between homework and the million other
things that I tried do while in college.

Being able to apply the concepts I learned in school directly to my work at
DatStat was a tremendous way to cement them in my mind and also learn their
significance in the industry. Before long I found that my coding proficiency and
my ability to contextualize the theoretical world of academia with the practical
world of software development exceeded most of my classmates.

# Work and Experience
Working at DatStat had me building out custom reports for various clients, as
well as integrating their hardware and/ or software with our platform. I also
saw the company build two products from the ground up in an attempt to replace
an existing product providing invaluable experience from an architectural and
business standpoint. Later in my time there we underwent a massive operations
overhaul. Seeing our internal process restructured and fine tuning that process
was similarly educational.

DatStat's software stack was mostly Microsoft-based (which I do not prefer these
days, but I'm no hater). The more important lessons learned from working there
were higher level: how to architecture practical software, how to navigate
legacy code, how to triage issues, and how to allocate time among the
constituents of a software development team.
